readme.md, before:

# Image Object Detection


This is a Streamlit web application that performs object detection using a pre-trained Faster R-CNN model on images. The model can detect 80 different object categories from the COCO dataset.

## Features

- Upload images in JPG, JPEG, or PNG format
- Real-time object detection
- Adjustable confidence threshold
- Display of detected objects with bounding boxes
- Individual cropped views of detected objects
- Confidence scores for each detection

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
git clone https://github.com/wesleychong21/streamlit_ai_vision.git

2. Navigate to the project directory:
cd streamlit_ai_vision

3. Install the required dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

## How to use the application

1. Run the application by running `streamlit run app.py`
2. The application will open in your default web browser. If it doesn't, navigate to `http://localhost:8501`

3. Use the application:
   - Click on "Choose an image..." to upload an image
   - Click the "Detect Objects" button to run object detection
   - Adjust the confidence threshold slider to filter detections
   - View the results, including:
     - Original image
     - Image with detection boxes
     - Individual cropped objects with confidence scores

## Model Information

The application uses the Faster R-CNN ResNet-50 FPN V2 model pre-trained on the COCO dataset, which can detect 80 different object categories including:
- People
- Vehicles (cars, buses, bikes)
- Animals (dogs, cats, birds)
- Common objects (chairs, bottles, phones)
- And many more

## Limitations

- The model works best with clear, well-lit images
- Processing time may vary depending on image size and hardware capabilities
- The model is limited to detecting the 80 categories defined in the COCO dataset

## Contributing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests for improvements.

## License

[Add your license information here]

Commit message:

Update README to include MIT License and copyright information

readme.md, after:

# Image Object Detection


This is a Streamlit web application that performs object detection using a pre-trained Faster R-CNN model on images. The model can detect 80 different object categories from the COCO dataset.

## Features

- Upload images in JPG, JPEG, or PNG format
- Real-time object detection
- Adjustable confidence threshold
- Display of detected objects with bounding boxes
- Individual cropped views of detected objects
- Confidence scores for each detection

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
git clone https://github.com/wesleychong21/streamlit_ai_vision.git

2. Navigate to the project directory:
cd streamlit_ai_vision

3. Install the required dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

## How to use the application

1. Run the application by running `streamlit run app.py`
2. The application will open in your default web browser. If it doesn't, navigate to `http://localhost:8501`

3. Use the application:
   - Click on "Choose an image..." to upload an image
   - Click the "Detect Objects" button to run object detection
   - Adjust the confidence threshold slider to filter detections
   - View the results, including:
     - Original image
     - Image with detection boxes
     - Individual cropped objects with confidence scores

## Model Information

The application uses the Faster R-CNN ResNet-50 FPN V2 model pre-trained on the COCO dataset, which can detect 80 different object categories including:
- People
- Vehicles (cars, buses, bikes)
- Animals (dogs, cats, birds)
- Common objects (chairs, bottles, phones)
- And many more

## Limitations

- The model works best with clear, well-lit images
- Processing time may vary depending on image size and hardware capabilities
- The model is limited to detecting the 80 categories defined in the COCO dataset

## Contributing

Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests for improvements.

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
